+++
title = "Knowledge is a tricky business"
date = "2010-04-01T20:51:43Z"
author = "Jan Hančič"
+++

Working in IT, I'm painfully aware that technology I learn about today can, and most probably will, be obsolete tomorrow. And I'm quite happy with that as it gives me reason to learn new stuff constantly. But recently I was reminded that even stuff that you think you know and generally doesn't change can ... well change, some APIs change constantly and you have to re-learn them all the time. But that usually isn't a problem as you will be reminded of the change by your program not working (and by the yelling of your customers, off course). The problem is when something changes in a way that the old way still works but is suddenly extremely inefficient, and you simply don't know that something changed.

I was also recently reminded that I might have to re-learn some of the stuff I already know and hasn't changed. I was reading a book called [High performance MySQL](http://oreilly.com/catalog/9780596003067) (it was sitting on my shelf for almost a year now) and it shook the foundations of my knowledge that I base my code on. I learned that VARCHAR can be longer than 255 chars. Where did I pick that limitation up I don't know (probably from CHAR, now that I have re-read the documentation), but I've been designing my schemas all this years with this limitation in mind and it never occurred to me that, in reality, I can define VARCHAR to be 65,535 chars long. I always used TEXT (or some variation) when it was required to store longer text.
This case by itself is no big deal, but I'm now trying to figure out what else I've also learned the wrong way in my early days as a programmer (I started to learn MySQL almost right from the start). The problem is that there's simply no easy way to find out. I'd have to re-read every manual for every technology I use, and since I kinda need to sleep I think I won't be doing that. What I will do, however, is open the manual every time I start using something that I take for granted so I will find out if there is anything rotten in my knowledge on that particular topic.
